What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
I was loading university course information from a text file into a data structure of my choosing, sorting that data structure, and printing the information of said courses. An analysis of the efficiency of the psuedocode that represented the potential code for the project was done to compare Vectors, Binary Trees, and Hash Table, with Binary trees being the most efficient. The code included a custom course object and using a vector for dynamic sizing and ease of use to store the course objects. My other options were using a binary tree or a hash table.

How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
I approached this problem by thinking through and designing pseudocode for the various data structures available to me to see which one would be best suited to this particular problem. After designing what I thought was an appropriate pseudocode I went through and evaluated the efficiency of various parts of it to compare how they did against each other.  The binary tree took the longest time to load data into but afterwards was the quickest and most reliable to use. Data structures are important to understand because they allow for quick lookup, movement, and sorting of large amounts of data whereas just having a bunch of independent variables or objects is slow and sloppy.

How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
My biggest roadblock was properly processing and loading information from a text file into my data structure. It took a few iterations of that part of the code and a while to debug but after a very specific order of events and tracking I was able to properly parse the data intoobjects and load them in. My biggest advice to myself and others is give yourself enough time to fix issues. They are going to come up sooner or later, writing perfect code on the first go almost never happens.

How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
This helped me realize the power of having a structure to handle a large amount of objects rather than just a bunch of loose objects or a basic array. It is much more powerful, more efficient, and easier to handle large amount of data. Also analyzing the efficiency of my programs is a much larger priority in my design process.

How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
A big thing is trying to handle as many strange scenarios that input can give your program and handling them accordingly. There were multiple kinds of wrong inputs both from the text file and from a potential user that I had to be aware of and in the end I didn't even cover all I could have. and in doing so led to my program crashing or behaving in ways that it shouldn't. Also, in using data structures it is easier to maintain more complicated programs as these are known concepts that can recognized by myself in the future or other potential programmers that might see my work, making it easier to work with and adjust.
